It's  simply  bare-faced  fortune  hunting;  but  there  you  are...she  is  her  own  mistress,  and  she's  married  him. 
She  is  up  at  five  every  morning  to  milk,  and  keeps  at  it  steadily  until  lunchtime. 
Don't  say  it. 
It  struck  me  that  he  might  look  natural  on  a  stage,  but  was  strangely  out  of  place  in  real  life. 
But  really,  seriously,  I  am  awfully  drawn  to  it. 
Mightn't  be  able  to  prove  it  to  a  pack  of  lawyers. 
She  jumped  up  promptly,  and  something  in  her  manner  reminded  me  that  her  position  was  a  dependent  one,  and  that  Mr.s.  Inglethorp,  kind  as  she  might  be  in  the  main,  did  not  allow  her  to  forget  it. 
I  went  on,  'I'm  going  to  warn  you,  whether  you  like  it  or  not. 
So  now  it  can't  be  done  until  tomorrow,  finished  Cynthia. 
Well,  said  Cynthia  graciously,  we  are  very  busy,  but  if  we  have  time  it  shall  be  done. 
She  was  obviously  upset,  and  it  had  taken  her  appetite  away. 
But  it  should  be  done...at  once! 
Is  it  a  bargain? 
It  was,  to  my  mind,  a  very  fair  and  equitable  distribution. 
If  you  will  allow  me  to  send  for  your  gardener,  I  will  prove  it  to  you. 
She  just  told  Willum  to  go  on  his  bicycle  down  to  the  village,  and  bring  back  a  form  of  will,  or  such-like...I  don't  know  what  exactly...she  wrote  it  down  for  him. 
Mr.  Wells  cleared  his  throat  and  remarked  drily:  Are  you  so  sure  it  is  a  coincidence,  Cavendish? 
Now  he's  done  it. 
Find  out  how  he  did  it. 
I  did  not  know  it.
It  was  a  guess  that  turned  out  to  be  correct.
It  is  the  key  to  the  whole  riddle!
But  it  is  an  idea,  that!
You  think  it  is  true?
But  it  is  truly  an  ingenious  supposition.
But  it  will  bring  you  no  kudos...the  kudos...the  case  against  him  will  be  dismissed  at  once!
I  daren't  do  it,  Mr.  Poirot.
It  can  be  done,  he  said  at  last.
I  admit  I  do  not  wish  it.
Would  it  be  easy?
And  why  would  it  not  be  easy?
It  was  a  foregone  conclusion  that  he  would  be  suspected;  but,  to  make  it  a  sure  thing  there  must  be  tangible  proof...such  as  the  actual  buying  of  the  poison,  and  that,  with  a  man  of  the  peculiar  appearance  of  Mr.  Inglethorp,  was  not  difficult.
My  dear  Poirot,  I  expostulated,  I  never  thought  it  would  interest  you.
I  didn't  know  it  was  of  any  importance.
It  is  of  the  first  importance!
No  one  took  much  notice  of  that  at  the  inquest...but  now  it  has  a  very  different  significance.
But  I  don't  at  all  see  how  it  could  have  been  done.
It  was  bad  enough  before,  when  we  thought  he'd  done  it,  but  I'm  hanged  if  it  isn't  worse  now,  when  we  all  feel  guilty  for  having  been  so  down  on  the  fellow.
Naturally  it  was  very  annoying  for  the  Cavendishes.
I  was  hurt,  and  showed  it.
If  I'm  convinced  he  did  it,  it  doesn't  matter  a  jot  to  me  how  he  did  it.
If  you  are  convinced  he  did  it,  said  Poirot  quietly.
I  believe  it  too.
I  suppose  you  think  it  nonsense?
Oh,  don't  say  it!
It  isn't  true!
It  can't  be  true.
I  won't  admit  it,  even  to  myself.
After  all,  it  is  very  responsible  work.
Pretty  thick,  isn't  it?
It  can't  last  for  ever.
Can't  it,  though?
It  can  last  long  enough  for  us  never  to  be  able  to  hold  up  our  heads  again.
John  lowered  his  voice:  Have  you  ever  thought,  Hastings...it's  a  nightmare  to  me...who  did  it?
Because...because...who  could  have  done  it?
It  would  have  been  very  risky.
Yes,  but  it  was  possible.
The  whole  thing  would  have  come  out,  then,  and  he  would  have  been  in  an  awkward  position,  for  no  one  would  have  believed  that  a  man  of  his  reputation  could  have  been  deceived  into  calling  it  heart  disease.
She  could  not  be  implicated...otherwise  I  should  have  heard  some  hint  of  it.
Still,  I  shrank  from  blurting  blurting  it  out.
I  would  never  have  dreamt  of  suspecting  the  the  doctor,  had  not  Poirot  put  it  into  my  head.
It  worried  me  just  a  little,  for  it  suggested  the  possibility  that  there  might  be  further  arrests  to  come.
Did  you  not  know  it?
But,  pausing  a  moment,  he  added:  Still,  it  does  not  surprise  me.
What  has  that  got  to  do  with  it?
Have  you  never  suspected  it?
I  am  quite  sure  of  it.
Yes,  sir,  now  you  mention  it,  it  did;  though  I  don't  know  how  you  came  to  hear  of  it.
It  was  a  splendid  life...I  loved  it.
You  will  understand  me  when  I  say  that  it  was  a  deadly  life  for  a  girl  brought  up  as  I  had  been.
I  will  not  go  into  the  details  of  the  police  court  proceedings,  as  it  involves  many  tiresome  repetitions.
This  having  come  to  his  stepmother's  ears,  she  taxed  him  with  it  on  the  afternoon  before  her  death,  and  a  quarrel  ensued,  part  of  which  was  overheard.
Should  have  remembered  it  if  it  was.
No,  what  he  is  trying  for  is  to  create  such  confusion  in  the  minds  of  the  jury  that  they  are  divided  in  their  opinion  as  to  which  brother  did  it.
It  was  really  almost  like  a  conjuring  trick.
It  was  most  easy  for  her.
If  anyone  has  seen  either  of  them  touching  the  medicine,  they  will  have  forgotten  it  by  that  time.
That  is  a  terrible  blow  to  him,  for  it  means  that  his  presence  in  the  room  cannot  be  concealed  as  he  had  hoped.
It  must,  in  fact,  have  been  distinctly  annoying  to  the  pair  of  schemers.
It  all  arose  from  a  misunderstanding.
He  knew  it.
I  could  have  cleared  him...though  it  might  have  meant  a  failure  to  convict  the  real  criminals. 