Nevertheless,  in  view  of  the  world-wide  notoriety  which  attended  it,  I  have  been  asked,  both  by  my  friend  Poirot  and  the  family  themselves,  to  write  an  account  of  the  whole  story.
It's  simply  bare-faced  fortune  hunting;  but  there  you  are...she  is  her  own  mistress,  and  she's  married  him.
Mary  was  situated  about  two  miles  from  the  little  station,  and  Styles  Court  lay  a  mile  the  other  side  of  it.
She  is  up  at  five  every  morning  to  milk,  and  keeps  at  it  steadily  until  lunchtime.
Don't  say  it.
In  case  of  a  refusal,  Lady  Tadminster  might  open  it  the  first  day,  and  Mrs  Crosbie  the  second.
The  French  window  swung  open  a  little  wider,  and  a  handsome  white-haired  old  lady,  with  a  somewhat  masterful  cast  of  features,  stepped  out  of  it  on  to  the  lawn.
It  was  one  of  the  longest  and  blackest  I  have  ever  seen.
It  struck  me  that  he  might  look  natural  on  a  stage,  but  was  strangely  out  of  place  in  real  life.
And  you  will  return  there  after  it  is  over?
But  really,  seriously,  I  am  awfully  drawn  to  it.
Don't  mean  the  police,  but  the  people  that  are  right  in  it.
Mightn't  be  able  to  prove  it  to  a  pack  of  lawyers.
Associate  it  more  with  a  man.
It  makes  me  feel  as  if  a  goose  were  walking  over  my  grave.
She  jumped  up  promptly,  and  something  in  her  manner  reminded  me  that  her  position  was  a  dependent  one,  and  that  Mrs  Inglethorp,  kind  as  she  might  be  in  the  main,  did  not  allow  her  to  forget  it.
Well,  don't  let  him  have  too  much  of  it.
I  went  on,  'I'm  going  to  warn  you,  whether  you  like  it  or  not.
I  brushed  it  aside.
Yes,  it's  a  fine  property.
We  were  all  busy  during  the  morning  arranging  and  decorating  the  Hall  in  the  village  where  it  was  to  take  place.
Cynthia  took  the  bottle  and  examined  it  with  the  severity  of  a  judge.
So  now  it  can't  be  done  until  tomorrow,  finished  Cynthia.
Well,  said  Cynthia  graciously,  we  are  very  busy,  but  if  we  have  time  it  shall  be  done.
The  little  nurse  withdrew,  and  Cynthia  promptly  took  a  jar  from  the  shelf,  refilled  the  bottle,  and  placed  it  on  the  table  outside  the  door.
His  head  was  exactly  the  shape  of  an  egg,  and  he  always  perched  it  a  little  on  one  side.
Mary  Cavendish  was  saying  in  the  voice  of  a  woman  desperately  controlling  herself:  Then  you  won't  show  it  to  me?
Then  show  it  to  me.
I  tell  you  it  is  not  what  you  imagine.
It  does  not  concern  you  in  the  least.
I  will  pour  it  out.
I  will  take  it  to  Emily.
He  poured  it  out,  and  went  out  of  the  room  carrying  it  carefully.
He  laughed  rather  ruefully,  as  he  described  how  he  had  discovered  a  very  rare  species  of  fern  in  an  inaccessible  place,  and  in  his  efforts  to  obtain  it  had  lost  his  footing,  and  slipped  ignominiously  into  a  neighbouring  pond.
It  was  obviously  locked  or  bolted  on  the  inside.
It's  never  been  undone.
The  framework  of  the  door  was  solid,  and  for  a  long  time  it  resisted  our  efforts,  but  at  last  we  felt  it  give  beneath  our  weight,  and  finally,  with  a  resounding  crash,  it  was  burst  open.
We  propose  that  it  should  take  place  tomorrow  night...or  rather  tonight.
Wilkins  hadn't  an  idea  of  such  a  thing,  until  Bauerstein  put  it  into  his  head.
I  spent  it  in  ransacking  the  library  until  I  discovered  a  medical  book  which  gave  a  description  of  strychnine  poisoning.
And  that  little  curious  fact,  that  possibly  paltry  little  detail  that  will  not  tally,  we  put  it  here!
He  was  carefully  engaged  in  brushing  his  coat  before  putting  it  on,  and  seemed  wholly  engrossed  in  the  task.
She  was  obviously  upset,  and  it  had  taken  her  appetite  away.
Therefore  she  drank  it  between  then  and  half-past  eight...certainly  not  much  later.
In  the  meantime,  remember  it.
He  retrieved  it,  and  buried  it  neatly.
He  did  so,  on  the  round  table  by  the  window,  but  it  was  an  ill-advised  proceeding;  for,  the  top  of  it  being  loose,  it  tilted  up,  and  precipitated  the  despatch-case  on  the  floor.
He  took  out  the  key  from  the  lock,  and  passed  it  to  me  to  inspect.
It  was  an  ordinary  key  of  the  Yale  type,  with  a  bit  of  twisted  wire  through  the  handle.
However,  he  went  to  the  length  of  unbolting  it,  and  opening  and  shutting  it  several  times;  this  he  did  with  the  utmost  precaution  against  making  any  noise.
He  examined  it  carefully,  and  then,  nimbly  whipping  out  a  pair  of  small  forceps  from  his  case,  he  drew  out  some  minute  particle  which  he  carefully  sealed  up  in  a  tiny  envelope.
A  small  quantity  of  a  dark  fluid  remained  in  the  saucepan,  and  an  empty  cup  and  saucer  that  had  been  drunk  out  of  stood  near  it.
Poirot  delicately  dipped  his  finger  into  liquid,  and  tasted  it  gingerly.
Mon  ami,  he  said,  turning  to  me,  somebody  stepped  on  that  cup,  grinding  it  to  powder,  and  the  reason  they  did  so  was  either  because  it  contained  strychnine  or...which  is  far  more  serious...because  it  did  not  contain  strychnine!
It  fitted,  and  he  opened  the  box,  but  after  a  moment's  hesitation,  closed  and  relocked  it,  and  slipped  the  bunch  of  keys,  as  well  as  the  key  that  had  originally  stood  in  the  lock,  into  his  own  pocket.
But  it  should  be  done...at  once!
He  went  down  on  his  knees,  examining  it  minutely...even  going  so  far  as  to  smell  it.
Finally,  he  poured  a  few  drops  of  the  cocoa  into  a  test  tube,  sealing  it  up  carefully.
No,  for  it  is  still  perceptibly  damp  and  smells  of  coffee.
It  may  turn  out  to  be  a  piece  of  one  of  Mrs  Inglethorp's  own  dresses,  and  quite  unimportant.
It  must  have  been  done  since  yesterday,  otherwise  a  good  housemaid  would  have  at  once  removed  it  with  blotting-paper  and  a  hot  iron.
I  suppose  it  is  the  sample  of  cocoa.
The  fire  burns...and  it  destroys.
I  relinquished  the  piece  of  paper,  and  watched  him  put  it  away  in  his  case,  with  the  same  methodical  care  that  he  bestowed  on  everything.
We  went  out  through  that  door,  locking  both  it  and  that  of  Mrs  Inglethorp's  room  as  before.
It  has  been  recently  done;  is  it  not  so?
I  don't  know  if  it  was  a  letter,  or  just  a  piece  of  paper,  but  it  had  writing  on  it,  and  she  kept  staring  at  it,  almost  as  if  she  couldn't  believe  what  was  written  there.
She  still  had  the  letter,  or  whatever  it  was,  in  her  hand?
What  would  she  be  likely  to  do  with  it  afterwards?
Well,  I  don't  know,  sir,  I  expect  she  would  lock  it  up  in  that  purple  case  of  hers.
She  brought  it  down  with  her  every  morning,  and  took  it  up  every  night.
She  missed  it  yesterday  at  lunch-time,  sir,  and  told  me  to  look  carefully  for  it.
She  was  very  much  put  out  about  it.
That's  it,  sir,  right  enough.
I  looked  everywhere  for  it.
Ah,  but  you  see  it  was  not  in  the  same  place  yesterday  as  it  was  today.
Five,  we  had,  before  the  war,  when  it  was  kept  as  a  gentleman's  place  should  be.
I  wish  you  could  have  seen  it  then,  sir.
A  fair  sight  it  was.
It  was  Number  Six  of  my  catalogue.
But  I  suppose,  as  the  last  powder  was  taken  two  days  ago,  it  is  not  of  much  importance?
I  examined  it  closely.
It  does  not  matter,  said  Poirot,  not  betraying  any  sign  of  disappointment.
Yes,  sir,  it  was  put  in  her  room  every  evening,  and  she  warmed  it  up  in  the  night...whenever  she  fancied  it.
What  was  it?
Who  took  it  to  her  room?
Did  you  bring  it  straight  up  from  the  kitchen  then?
No,  sir,  you  see  there's  not  much  room  on  the  gas  stove,  so  Cook  used  to  make  it  early,  before  putting  the  vegetables  on  for  supper.
Then  I  used  to  bring  it  up,  and  put  it  on  the  table  by  the  swing  door,  and  take  it  into  her  room  later.
The  swing  door  is  in  the  left  wing,  is  it  not?
And  the  table,  is  it  on  this  side  of  the  door,  or  on  the  farther...servants'  side?
What  time  did  you  bring  it  up  last  night?
And  when  did  you  take  it  into  Mrs  Inglethorp's  room?
Annie  had  been  growing  redder  and  redder  in  the  face,  and  now  she  blurted  out  unexpectedly:  And  if  there  was  salt  in  it,  sir,  it  wasn't  me.
What  makes  you  think  there  was  salt  in  it?  asked  Poirot.
Seeing  it  on  the  tray,  sir.
Coarse  kitchen  salt,  it  looked.
I  never  noticed  it  when  I  took  the  tray  up,  but  when  I  came  to  take  it  into  the  mistress's  room  I  saw  it  at  once,  and  I  suppose  I  ought  to  have  taken  it  down  again,  and  asked  Cook  to  make  some  fresh.
So  I  dusted  it  off  with  my  apron,  and  took  it  in.
I  awaited  his  next  question  with  impatience,  but  it  disappointed  me.
Yes,  sir;  it  always  was.
It  had  never  been  opened.
I  couldn't  rightly  say,  sir;  it  was  shut  but  I  couldn't  say  whether  it  was  bolted  or  not.
She  usually  did  lock  it  at  night.
Yes,  sir,  and  I  would  have  taken  it  out  with  a  piece  of  blotting-paper  and  a  hot  iron.
That  salt  on  the  tray,  what  else  could  it  have  been?
It  might  have  been  salt,  replied  Poirot  placidly.
It  is  not  the  key,  but  it  will  open  it  at  a  pinch.
It  did  not  yield  much.
He  pulled  a  crumpled  envelope  out  of  his  pocket,  and  tossed  it  over  to  me.
It  was  rather  a  curious  document.
A  plain,  dirty  looking  old  envelope  with  a  few  words  scrawled  across  it,  apparently  at  random.
The  following  is  a  facsimile  of  it.
Yes,  it  is  Mrs  Inglethorp's.
I  cannot  say...but  it  is  suggestive.
Is  it  a  bargain?
I  saw  him  put  it  down  there.
I  suppose  you  are  quite  sure  that  the  latch-key  was  forgotten...that  he  did  not  take  it  after  all?
We  always  keep  it  in  the  hall  drawer.
I'll  go  and  see  if  it's  there  now.
I  am  certain  that  you  would  find  it.
If  Mr  Inglethorp  did  take  it,  he  has  had  ample  time  to  replace  it  by  now.
If  anyone  had  chanced  to  look  this  morning  before  his  return,  and  seen  it  there,  it  would  have  been  a  valuable  point  in  his  favour.
The  reaction  after  a  shock  is  always  trying,  and  I  think  we  were  all  suffering  from  it.
Surely  he  could  not  be  unaware  of  the  fact,  conceal  it  as  we  would.
It  will  revive  you.
It  is  unparalleled  for  the  mal  de  tete.
You  abandon  it  in  the  war-time,  eh?
No,  I  never  take  it  in  coffee.
It  puzzled  me,  for  I  saw  no  occasion  for  it.
Can  you  give  us  no  help  in  solving  it,  monsieur?
I  did,  but  it  contains  no  information.
It  is  merely  a  note  asking  me  to  call  upon  her  this  morning,  as  she  wanted  my  advice  on  a  matter  of  great  importance.
It  was,  to  my  mind,  a  very  fair  and  equitable  distribution.
Where  is  it  now?
He  took  out  the  charred  fragment  we  had  found  in  the  grate  in  Mrs  Inglethorp's  room,  and  handed  it  to  the  lawyer  with  a  brief  explanation  of  when  and  where  he  had  found  it.
In  fact  I  am  almost  certain  that  it  was  made  no  earlier  than  yesterday  afternoon.
If  you  will  allow  me  to  send  for  your  gardener,  I  will  prove  it  to  you.
Dorcas  answered  it  in  due  course.
Manning  came  slowly  and  hesitatingly  through  the  French  window,  and  stood  as  near  it  as  he  could.
He  held  his  cap  in  his  hands,  twisting  it  very  carefully  round  and  round.
She  just  told  Willum  to  go  on  his  bicycle  down  to  the  village,  and  bring  back  a  form  of  will,  or  such-like...I  don't  know  what  exactly...she  wrote  it  down  for  him.
What  did  she  do  with  it  afterwards?
Well,  sir,  she  slipped  it  into  a  long  envelope,  and  put  it  inside  a  sort  of  purple  box  that  was  standing  on  the  desk.
Mr  Wells  cleared  his  throat  and  remarked  drily:  Are  you  so  sure  it  is  a  coincidence,  Cavendish?
John,  I  think,  would  have  pressed  his  questions  further,  but  at  that  moment  the  loud  purr  of  a  motor  was  audible,  and  we  all  turned  to  the  window  as  it  swept  past.
How  soon,  and  how  contemptuously,  I  had  dismissed  it  from  my  mind.
Now  he's  done  it.
Find  out  how  he  did  it.
Don't  think  she  ever  realized  it,  though,  or  felt  the  lack  of  it.
Taking  the  keys  from  Poirot,  John  unlocked  it,  and  we  all  passed  in.
I  locked  it,  out  of  precaution,  this  morning.
But  it's  not  locked  now.
But  who  forced  it?
As  to  the  door  being  locked,  it  is  a  very  ordinary  lock.
Probably  any  other  of  the  doorkeys  in  this  passage  would  fit  it.
It  was  vital  to  him  that  it  should  be  destroyed  before  it  was  discovered  and  its  significance  appreciated.
Finding  the  case  locked,  he  was  obliged  to  force  it,  thus  betraying  his  presence.
I  should  have  carried  it  away  with  me.
And  now  it  is  gone.
It  is  destroyed...but  is  it  destroyed?
It  would  clear  the  air.
I  really  wonder  that  I  did  not  think  of  it  myself.
It  must  have  been  made  just  at  the  time  they  were  engaged.
It  came  quite  as  a  surprise  to  Wells...and  to  John  Cavendish  also.
It  was  written  on  one  of  those  printed  will  forms,  and  witnessed  by  two  of  the  servants...not  Dorcas.
Did  Mr  Inglethorp  know  of  it?
And  have  you  not,  in  such  a  case,  tried  the  word  once  or  twice  on  the  edge  of  the  blotting-paper,  or  a  spare  scrap  of  paper,  to  see  if  it  looked  right?
To  make  sure,  she  had  further  tried  it  in  a  sentence,  thus:  'I  am  possessed.'
I  did  not  know  it.
It  was  a  guess  that  turned  out  to  be  correct.
You  observed  that  it  had  a  piece  of  twisted  wire  through  the  handle.
That  suggested  to  me  at  once  that  it  had  possibly  been  wrenched  off  a  flimsy  key-ring.
Now,  if  it  had  been  lost  and  recovered,  Mrs  Inglethorp  would  at  once  have  replaced  it  on  her  bunch;  but  on  her  bunch  I  found  what  was  obviously  the  duplicate  key,  very  new  and  bright,  which  led  me  to  the  hypothesis  that  somebody  else  had  inserted  the  original  key  in  the  lock  of  the  despatch-case.
Every  fresh  circumstance  seems  to  establish  it  more  clearly.
She  may  have  forgotten  to  bolt  the  door  into  the  passage  when  she  went  to  bed,  and  have  got  up  later,  towards  morning,  and  bolted  it  then.
For  it  is  of  the  most  complicated!
It  puzzles  me.
It  is  the  key  to  the  whole  riddle!
Shorn  of  its  medical  phraseology  and  technicalities,  it  amounted  to  the  fact  that  Mrs  Inglethorp  had  met  her  death  as  the  result  of  strychnine  poisoning.
The  symptoms  appear  from  one  to  two  hours  after  it  has  been  swallowed.
It  is  retarded  under  certain  conditions,  none  of  which,  however,  appear  to  have  been  present  in  this  case.
No,  I  myself  took  a  sample  of  the  cocoa  remaining  in  the  saucepan  and  had  it  analysed.
It  can  be  detected  in  a  solution  of  1 in  70,000,  and  can  only  be  disguised  by  some  strongly  flavoured  substance.
cocoa  would  be  quite  powerless  to  mask  it.
Dr  Wilkins  corroborated  it  on  all  points.
Sounded  as  to  the  possibility  of  suicide,  he  repudiated  it  utterly.
My  mother,  at  the  time  of  her  death,  and  for  some  time  before  it,  was  taking  a  tonic  containing  strychnine.
Strychnine  is,  in  a  certain  sense,  a  cumulative  poison,  but  it  would  be  quite  impossible  for  it  to  result  in  sudden  death  in  this  way.
Dorcas's  evidence  on  this  point  was  substantially  what  Poirot  and  I  had  already  heard,  so  I  will  not  repeat  it  here.
Dorcas  came  running  down  and  woke  my  husband,  and  we  all  went  to  my  mother-in-law's  mother-in-law's  room,  but  it  was  locked......
The  examination  was  over,  though  I  doubted  if  the  Coroner  was  entirely  satisfied  with  it.
Poirot  and  I  had,  of  course  already  seen  it.
It  added  nothing  to  our  knowledge  of  the  tragedy.
I  have  found  it  hard  to  forgive  the  things  you  said  against  my  dear  husband  but  I  am  an  old  woman  &  very  fond  of  you,  Yours  affectionately,  Emily  Inglethorpe  It  was  handed  to  the  jury  who  scrutinized  it  attentively.
I  fear  it  does  not  help  us  much,  said  the  Coroner,  with  a  sigh.
It  shows  clearly  enough  that  my  poor  old  friend  had  just  found  out  she'd  been  made  a  fool  of!
Will  you  tell  us  to  whom  you  sold  it?
He  said  it  was  to  poison  a  dog.
It  was  produced;  and,  with  a  few  words  of  stern  censure,  the  Coroner  dismissed  the  wretched  Mr  Mace.
He  took  an  old  envelope  out  of  his  pocket,  and  wrote  his  name  on  it,  handing  it  to  the  jury.
It  was  certainly  utterly  dissimilar.
But  it  is  an  idea,  that!
You  think  it  is  true?
But  it  is  truly  an  ingenious  supposition.
The  Coroner  reflected  a  moment,  then  he  said:  I  believe,  Mr  Inglethorp,  that  you  yourself  poured  out  the  coffee,  and  took  it  to  your  wife  that  evening?
I  poured  it  out,  yes.
But  I  did  not  take  it  to  her.
When  I  came  through  the  hall  again  a  few  minutes  later,  it  was  gone.
But  it  will  bring  you  no  kudos...the  kudos...the  case  against  him  will  be  dismissed  at  once!
I  daren't  do  it,  Mr  Poirot.
It  can  be  done,  he  said  at  last.
I  admit  I  do  not  wish  it.
It  has  to  be  examined...sifted.
No,  my  friend,  this  evidence  has  been  very  cleverly  manufactured...so  cleverly  that  it  has  defeated  its  own  ends.
Because,  so  long  as  the  evidence  against  him  was  vague  and  intangible,  it  was  very  hard  to  disprove.
He  did  not  buy  it.
Would  it  be  easy?
And  why  would  it  not  be  easy?
It  was  a  foregone  conclusion  that  he  would  be  suspected;  but,  to  make  it  a  sure  thing  there  must  be  tangible  proof...such  as  the  actual  buying  of  the  poison,  and  that,  with  a  man  of  the  peculiar  appearance  of  Mr  Inglethorp,  was  not  difficult.
Oh,  yes,  I  had  a  little  idea  sometime  ago...and  it  has  turned  out  to  be  correct.
Did  nothing  strike  you  as  peculiar  about  it?
No,  I  can't  say  it  did.
The  doctors  ridiculed  it  of  course.
But  it  was  quite  a  natural  suggestion  for  a  layman  to  make.
That  object,  it  concerns  Mr  Alfred  Inglethorp.
But  you  will  find  it  all  right.
My  dear  Poirot,  I  expostulated,  I  never  thought  it  would  interest  you.
I  didn't  know  it  was  of  any  importance.
It  is  of  the  first  importance!
No  one  took  much  notice  of  that  at  the  inquest...but  now  it  has  a  very  different  significance.
We  must  find  out  who  did  take  that  coffee  to  Mrs  Inglethorp  eventually,  or  who  passed  through  the  hall  whilst  it  was  standing  there.
I  had  rejected  it  as  absurd,  nevertheless  it  persisted.
You  couldn't  call  it  a  suspicion,  I  murmured.
It's  so  utterly  foolish.
She  might  have  burnt  the  new  one,  mistaking  it  for  the  earlier  one  in  his  favour.
My  idea  was...a  very  ridiculous  one,  no  doubt...that  she  had  intended  to  poison  him...and  that,  in  some  way,  Mrs  Inglethorp  got  hold  of  it  by  mistake.
But  I  don't  at  all  see  how  it  could  have  been  done.
But  what  does  it  mean?
Dr  Bauerstein  had  it  tested,  and  you  yourself  laughed  at  the  possibility  of  there  being  strychnine  in  it.
I  know  Dr  Bauerstein  had  it  tested,  replied  Poirot  quietly.
Well,  I  have  a  fancy  for  having  it  analysed  again,  that  is  all.
It  was  bad  enough  before,  when  we  thought  he'd  done  it,  but  I'm  hanged  if  it  isn't  worse  now,  when  we  all  feel  guilty  for  having  been  so  down  on  the  fellow.
Naturally  it  was  very  annoying  for  the  Cavendishes.
It's  up  in  the  front  attic,  sir.
We  will  look  at  the  chest,  although...but  no  matter...we  will  examine  it  all  the  same.
He  seemed  somewhat  apathetic  in  the  search,  as  though  he  expected  no  great  results  from  it.
He  turned  it  over  in  his  hands,  examining  it  closely.
After  a  moment's  hesitation,  he  replaced  it  in  the  chest,  heaped  all  the  other  things  on  top  of  it  as  before,  and  made  his  way  briskly  downstairs.
I  am  much  obliged  to  you  for  mentioning  it.
And  very  funny  it  is  sometimes,  sir.
I  shall  never  forget  the  night  he  came  down  as  the  Char  of  Persia,  I  think  he  called  it...a  sort  of  Eastern  King  it  was.
And  well  I  know  it,  for  he  borrowed  two  skeins  of  my  black  wool  to  make  it  with!
And  I'm  sure  it  looked  wonderfully  natural  at  a  distance.
Burnt  corks  they  use  mostly...though  'tis  messy  getting  it  off  again.
Do  you  think  it  is  the  one?
You  notice  it  had  been  trimmed?
It  was  cut  exactly  the  shape  of  Mr  Inglethorp's,  and  I  found  one  or  two  snipped  hairs.
Who  put  it  in  the  chest,  I  wonder?
You  realize  that  he  chose  the  one  place  in  the  house  to  hide  it  where  its  presence  would  not  be  remarked?
I  was  hurt,  and  showed  it.
I  beg  of  you  to  reply  to  it  truthfully.
It  is  this.
If  I'm  convinced  he  did  it,  it  doesn't  matter  a  jot  to  me  how  he  did  it.
If  you  are  convinced  he  did  it,  said  Poirot  quietly.
He  repeated  it  to  me,  and  there  is  a  sentence  of  yours  that  has  impressed  me  very  much.
I  believe  it  too.
I  suppose  you  think  it  nonsense?
You  believe  him  capable  of  committing  it.
But  your  instinct  tells  you  he  did  not  commit  it.
It  tells  you  more...shall  I  go  on?
Oh,  don't  say  it!
It  isn't  true!
It  can't  be  true.
I  won't  admit  it,  even  to  myself.
Let  the  cost  be  what  it  may.
It  can  neither  be  explained  nor  ignored.
The  remark  seemed  so  utterly  irrelevant  that  I  did  not  even  take  the  trouble  to  answer  it.
Otherwise,  Poirot  himself  might  relieve  me  of  it.
A  really  perfect  bit  of  old  china...it's  pure  delight  to  handle  it,  or  even  to  look  at  it.
Say  it  over  again,  will  you?
What  I  want  to  ask  is  this:  the  door  leading  into  Mrs  Inglethorp's  room  from  that  of  Mademoiselle  Cynthia,  it  was  bolted,  you  say?
Certainly  it  was  bolted,  replied  Mary  Cavendish,  rather  surprised. I
I  mean,  explained  Poirot,  you  are  sure  it  was  bolted,  and  not  merely  locked?
I  said  bolted,  meaning  that  it  was  fastened,  and  I  could  not  open  it,  but  I  believe  all  the  doors  were  found  bolted  on  the  inside.
I...I  believe  it  was.
But  you  did  not  see  it?
I  happened  to  notice  that  it  was  bolted.
Do  you  think  she  would  show  it  to  me?
It's  an  interesting  little  place.
After  all,  it  is  very  responsible  work.
It  is  near  the  window,  this  cupboard?
I  thought  about  the  crime,  and  it  struck  me  as  being  very  unreal  and  far  off.
Probably,  I  thought,  it  really  never  happened.
Of  course,  it  was  all  a  bad  dream.
It  leavens  the ...she  looked  at  him... stolid  stupidity  of  the  ordinary  Englishman.
She  hesitated,  and  suddenly  there  swept  across  her  face  a  strange  expression,  old  as  the  hills,  yet  with  something  eternally  young  about  it.
Pretty  thick,  isn't  it?
It  can't  last  for  ever.
Can't  it,  though?
It  can  last  long  enough  for  us  never  to  be  able  to  hold  up  our  heads  again.
John  lowered  his  voice:  Have  you  ever  thought,  Hastings...it's  a  nightmare  to  me...who  did  it?
Because...because...who  could  have  done  it?
Rapidly,  I  considered  it.
It  would  have  been  very  risky.
Yes,  but  it  was  possible.
But,  look  here,  Bauerstein  had  had  it  analysed  already?
Bauerstein  had  it  analysed...that's  just  it!
No,  it  wasn't,  I  admitted  reluctantly.
I  hoped  and  prayed  it  would  not  occur  to  John  also.
The  whole  thing  would  have  come  out,  then,  and  he  would  have  been  in  an  awkward  position,  for  no  one  would  have  believed  that  a  man  of  his  reputation  could  have  been  deceived  into  calling  it  heart  disease.
Voices  rose  near  at  hand,  for  tea  was  spread  out  under  the  sycamore-tree,  as  it  had  been  on  the  day  of  my  arrival.
I'd  love  him  to  see  it.
He  made  me  take  the  brooch  out  of  my  tie  the  other  day,  and  put  it  in  again,  because  he  said  it  wasn't  straight.
An  old  woman  came  and  opened  it.
Had  he  not,  in  all  probability,  been  the  cause  of  it?
She  could  not  be  implicated...otherwise  I  should  have  heard  some  hint  of  it.
Still,  I  shrank  from  blurting  blurting  it  out.
I  would  never  have  dreamt  of  suspecting  the  the  doctor,  had  not  Poirot  put  it  into  my  head.
It  worried  me  just  a  little,  for  it  suggested  the  possibility  that  there  might  be  further  arrests  to  come.
Did  you  not  know  it?
But,  pausing  a  moment,  he  added:  Still,  it  does  not  surprise  me.
What  has  that  got  to  do  with  it?
Have  you  never  suspected  it?
Well,  it  is  this:  that  Mrs  Cavendish  does  not  care,  and  never  has  cared  one  little  jot  about  Dr  Bauerstein!
I  am  quite  sure  of  it.
He  spread  it  out  on  the  table.
It  was  a  medium  sized  sheet  of  paper,  rather  dusty,  as  though  it  had  lain  by  for  some  time.
At  the  top,  it  bore  the  printed  stamp  of  Messrs.
Parkson's,  the  well-known  theatrical  costumiers,  and  it  was  addressed  to  ...(the  debatable  initial)  Cavendish,  Esq.,
It  might  be  T.,
or  it  might  be  L.,
It  certainly  isn't  a  J.
It  is  an  L.,
Where  did  it  come  from?  I  asked  curiously.
It  confirms  a  surmise  of  mine.
Having  deduced  its  existence,  I  set  Miss  Howard  to  search  for  it,  and,  as  you  see,  she  has  been  successful.
She  meant,  replied  Poirot  promptly,  that  she  found  it  on  top  of  a  wardrobe.
Yes...that  is  to  say,  I  believe  I  know  how  it  was  committed.
My  good  Dorcas,  I  have  an  idea...a  little  idea...if  it  should  prove  justified,  what  magnificent  chance!
Yes,  sir,  now  you  mention  it,  it  did;  though  I  don't  know  how  you  came  to  hear  of  it.
The  man  came  and  put  it  right  on  Tuesday  morning.
Besides,  a  father  confessor  should  be  elderly,  it  is  not  at  all  the  role  for  a  young  man.
It  was  a  splendid  life...I  loved  it.
You  will  understand  me  when  I  say  that  it  was  a  deadly  life  for  a  girl  brought  up  as  I  had  been.
Our  efforts  having  been  in  vain,  we  had  abandoned  the  matter,  hoping  that  it  might  turn  up  of  itself  one  day.
It  is,  as  you  see,  highly  magnified.
But  what  were  Lawrence  Cavendish's  finger-marks  doing  on  it?
Visitors  were  not  permitted  below  at  that  hour,  so,  in  spite  of  my  many  apologies,  Mademoiselle  Cynthia's  colleague  had  to  go  down  and  fetch  it  for  me.
No  doubt  it  has  struck  you  too.
This  is  the  third  time  we  run  up  against  it.
Officially,  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  it.
I  will  not  go  into  the  details  of  the  police  court  proceedings,  as  it  involves  many  tiresome  repetitions.
This  having  come  to  his  stepmother's  ears,  she  taxed  him  with  it  on  the  afternoon  before  her  death,  and  a  quarrel  ensued,  part  of  which  was  overheard.
This  will  was  found  destroyed  in  the  grate  of  her  bedroom  the  following  morning,  but  evidence  had  come  to  light  which  showed  that  it  had  been  drawn  up  in  favour  of  her  husband.
She  was  an  old  lady,  and  might  possibly  have  forgotten  the  former  one;  or...this  seemed  to  him  more  likely...she  may  have  had  an  idea  that  it  was  revoked  by  her  marriage,  as  there  had  been  some  conversation  on  the  subject.
It  may  have  done,  but  Mr  Lawrence  was  away  from  home  part  of  June.
In  the  event  of  a  parcel  arriving  for  him  whilst  he  was  away,  what  would  be  done  with  it?
It  would  either  be  put  in  his  room  or  sent  on  after  him.
No,  sir,  I  should  leave  it  on  the  hall  table.
You  do  not  know  if  it  was  sent  after  Mr  Lawrence  Cavendish  to  Wales,  or  whether  it  was  put  in  his  room?
Don't  think  it  was  sent  after  him.
Should  have  remembered  it  if  it  was.
Supposing  a  parcel  arrived  addressed  to  Mr  Lawrence  Cavendish,  and  afterwards  it  disappeared,  should  you  remark  its  absence?
I  should  think  some  one  had  taken  charge  of  it.
How  did  you  come  to  look  for  it?
The  Belgian  detective  who  was  employed  on  the  case  asked  me  to  search  for  it.
Where  did  you  eventually  discover  it?
Did  you  not  find  it  yourself?
Then  you  must  know  where  you  found  it?
Yes,  it  was  on  the  prisoner's  wardrobe.
It  was  ordered  by  letter,  and  a  postal  order  was  enclosed.
And  yet  you  affirm  so  confidently  that  it  came  from  Styles.
It  might,  in  fact,  have  been  any  postmark?
Elizabeth  Wells,  second  housemaid  at  Styles,  stated  that  after  she  had  gone  to  bed  she  remembered  that  she  had  bolted  the  front  door,  instead  of  leaving  it  on  the  latch  as  Mr  Inglethorp  had  requested.
No,  what  he  is  trying  for  is  to  create  such  confusion  in  the  minds  of  the  jury  that  they  are  divided  in  their  opinion  as  to  which  brother  did  it.
It  had  been  found  in  Mrs  Inglethorp's  cheque  book,  and  on  being  reversed  at  a  mirror,  showed  clearly  the  words:  .
Does  it  not  strike  you  as  unlikely  that  a  man  who  had  committed  a  crime  should  keep  the  evidence  of  it  in  an  unlocked  drawer  for  anyone  to  find?
In  other  words,  it  was  winter  underclothing.
You  would  inherit  it,  wouldn't  you?
Then  how  do  you  account  for  the  fact  that  you  left  the  unmistakable  impress  of  your  finger-prints  on  it?
Then  why  did  you  take  it  up?
They  all  declared  unanimously  that  it  was  certainly  not  his  hand-writing,  and  gave  it  as  their  view  that  it  might  be  that  of  the  prisoner  disguised.
Cross-examined,  they  admitted  that  it  might  be  the  prisoner's  hand-writing  cleverly  counterfeited.
Sir  Ernest  Heavywether's  speech  in  opening  the  case  for  the  defence  was  not  a  long  one,  but  it  was  backed  by  the  full  force  of  his  emphatic  manner.
Not  only  was  it  entirely  circumstantial,  but  the  greater  part  of  it  was  practically  unproved.
Let  them  take  the  testimony  they  had  heard  and  sift  it  impartially.
The  quarrel  which  had  taken  place  between  prisoner  and  his  stepmother  was  freely  admitted,  but  both  it  and  his  financial  embarrassments  had  been  grossly  exaggerated.
Unfortunately,  he  had  met  with  no  one  on  the  way  there  or  back  who  could  vouch  for  the  truth  of  his  story,  but  luckily  he  had  kept  the  note,  and  it  would  be  produced  as  evidence.
Tell  me,  is  there  nothing  familiar  about  the  hand-writing  of  it?
Do  you  not  think  that  it  bears  a  marked  resemblance  to  your  own  hand-writing...carelessly  hand-writing...carelessly  disguised?
I  put  it  to  you  that  it  is  your  own  hand-writing!
It  was  really  almost  like  a  conjuring  trick.
You  stood  by  the  mantel-piece,  twiddling  the  things  on  it  in  your  usual  fashion,  and  your  hand  shook  like  a  leaf!
And  you...you,  my  friend,  have  given  it  to  me!
If  that  man  comes  into  the  house,  I  leave  it!
I  at  once  examined  the  bedroom  of  the  deceased  which,  by  the  advice  of  the  doctors,  had  been  kept  locked,  and  was  consequently  exactly  as  it  had  been  when  the  tragedy  occurred.
To  take  the  fragment  of  green  material  first,  I  found  it  caught  in  the  bolt  of  the  communicating  door  between  that  room  and  the  adjoining  one  occupied  by  Mademoiselle  Cynthia.
I  handed  the  fragment  over  to  the  police  who  did  not  consider  it  of  much  importance.
Nor  did  they  recognize  it  for  what  it  was...a  piece  torn  from  a  green  land  armlet.
But  in  the  first  place  we  have  only  her  word  for  it,  since  it  was  she  who  tried  that  particular  door  and  reported  it  fastened.
We  will  say  that  she  is  seeking  for  something  and  has  not  yet  found  it.
She  picks  it  up,  and  retreats  quickly  to  Mademoiselle  Cynthia's  room,  closing  the  door  behind  her.
She  had  only  made  it  out  that  very  afternoon!
The  second  'scandal'  she  spoke  of  was  not  the  same  as  the  first...and  it  concerned  herself!
and  5 o'clock,  something  has  occurred  to  occasion  a  complete  revolution  of  feeling,  since  she  is  now  as  anxious  to  destroy  the  will,  as  she  was  before  to  make  it.
She  demanded  it  from  Mrs  Inglethorp  who  assured  her,  quite  truly,  that  it  had  nothing  to  do  with  that  matter.
Possibly  she  applied  oil  to  the  hinges,  for  I  found  that  it  opened  quite  noiselessly  when  I  tried  it.
The  servants  noticed  nothing,  since  Annie,  the  housemaid,  who  took  in  the  coffee,  brought  in  seven  cups,  not  knowing  that  Mr  Inglethorp  never  drank  it,  whereas  Dorcas,  who  cleared  them  away  the  following  morning,  found  six  as  usual...or  strictly  speaking  she  found  five,  the  sixth  being  the  one  found  broken  in  Mrs  Inglethorp's  room.
I  accordingly  secured  a  sample  of  that  cocoa,  and  sent  it  to  be  analysed.
He  did  not  have  it  tested,  as  I  did,  for  a  narcotic.
She  is  seized  with  panic,  and  under  its  influence  she  hurries  downstairs,  and  quickly  drops  the  coffee-cup  and  saucer  used  by  Mademoiselle  Cynthia  into  a  large  brass  vase,  where  it  is  discovered  later  by  Monsieur  Lawrence.
I  shall  never  forget  it.
But  was  the  coffee  poisoned,  or  was  it  not?
We  come  to  a  little  difficulty  here,  since  Mrs  Inglethorp  never  drank  it.
It  was  still  damp,  it  exhaled  a  strong  odour  of  coffee,  and  imbedded  in  the  nap  of  the  carpet  I  found  some  little  splinters  of  china.
What  had  happened  was  plain  to  me,  for  not  two  minutes  before  I  had  placed  my  little  case  on  the  table  near  the  window,  and  the  table,  tilting  up,  had  deposited  it  upon  the  floor  on  precisely  the  identical  spot.
What  happened  next  is  mere  guess  work  on  my  part,  but  I  should  say  that  Mrs  Inglethorp  picked  up  the  broken  cup  and  placed  it  on  the  table  by  the  bed.
Feeling  in  need  of  a  stimulant  of  some  kind,  she  heated  up  her  cocoa,  and  drank  it  off  then  and  there.
There  was  no  need  to  introduce  it.
It  was  already  there...in  the  mixture.
A  lady  in  England  lost  her  life  by  taking  a  similar  mixture:  the  precipitated  strychnine  collected  at  the  bottom,  and  in  taking  the  last  dose  she  swallowed  nearly  all  of  it!'
One  or  two  of  those  powders  introduced  into  the  full  bottle  of  medicine  would  effectually  precipitate  the  strychnine,  as  the  book  describes,  and  cause  it  to  be  taken  in  the  last  dose.
You  will  learn  later  that  the  person  who  usually  poured  out  Mrs  Inglethorp's  medicine  was  always  extremely  careful  not  to  shake  the  bottle,  but  to  leave  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  it  undisturbed.
Had  it  been  a  little  clearer  in  its  terms,  it  is  possible  that  Mrs  Inglethorp,  warned  in  time,  would  have  escaped..
As  it  was,  she  realized  her  danger,  but  not  the  manner  of  it.
How  did  you  get  it?
When  I  went  up  to  Styles  with  you  that  first  day,  I  had  no  idea  as  to  how  the  crime  had  been  committed,  but  from  what  I  knew  of  Mr  Inglethorp  I  fancied  that  it  would  be  very  hard  to  find  anything  to  connect  him  with  it.
but  it  was  clever...his  idea!
It  was  most  easy  for  her.
What  could  be  easier  than  quietly  to  dissolve  one  or  more  of  those  powders  in  Mrs  Inglethorp's  large  sized  bottle  of  medicine  when  it  came  from  Coot's?
If  anyone  has  seen  either  of  them  touching  the  medicine,  they  will  have  forgotten  it  by  that  time.
Yes,  it  was  a  clever  idea!
He  fears  that  if  he  remains  in  the  room  he  may  have  to  open  it  again,  and  that  Mrs  Inglethorp  might  catch  sight  of  the  letter  before  he  could  snatch  it  up.
Mrs  Inglethorp  reads  it,  and  becomes  aware  of  the  perfidy  of  her  husband  and  Evelyn  Howard,  though,  unfortunately,  the  sentence  about  the  bromides  conveys  no  warning  to  her  mind.
There's  only  one  thing  I  can't  make  out,  why  didn't  he  destroy  it  at  once  when  he  got  hold  of  it?
Because  he  did  not  dare  take  the  biggest  risk  of  all...that  of  keeping  it  on  his  own  person.
That  is  a  terrible  blow  to  him,  for  it  means  that  his  presence  in  the  room  cannot  be  concealed  as  he  had  hoped.
There  are  no  means  of  destroying  it;  and  he  dare  not  keep  it.
Then,  all  the  time,  it  was  in  the  spill  vase  in  Mrs  Inglethorp's  bedroom,  under  our  very  noses?  I  cried.
You  rushed  down  to  Styles,  and  found  it  still  there?
But  I  still  can't  understand  why  Inglethorp  was  such  a  fool  as  to  leave  it  there  when  he  had  plenty  of  opportunity  to  destroy  it.
I  was  not  sure  then  if  Inglethorp  was  the  criminal  or  not,  but  if  he  was  I  reasoned  that  he  would  not  have  the  paper  on  him,  but  would  have  hidden  it  somewhere,  and  by  enlisting  the  sympathy  of  the  household  I  could  effectually  prevent  his  destroying  it.
He  was  therefore  forced  to  depart  from  the  house,  leaving  it  in  the  spill  vase.
The  paper  was  safe  where  it  was;  since  no  one  had  thought  of  looking  there  in  the  first  week,  it  was  not  likely  they  would  do  so  afterwards.
The  '1'  was  written  in  before  the  '7'  to  turn  it  into  the  '17th'.
It  concealed  a  very  opposite  emotion.
It  must,  in  fact,  have  been  distinctly  annoying  to  the  pair  of  schemers.
But  he  declared  that  he  saw  it  bolted!  I  cried.
And  that  was  just  what  confirmed  my  suspicion  that  it  was  not.
I  was  fairly  certain  that  it  was  Mrs  Cavendish  who  had  hidden  it,  but  I  had  to  make  sure.
It  all  arose  from  a  misunderstanding.
He  knew  it.
Pardon  me,  mon  ami,  but  you  did  not  understand  it  in  the  least.
I  could  have  cleared  him...though  it  might  have  meant  a  failure  to  convict  the  real  criminals.